Perform Foundational Data, ML, and AI Tasks in Google Cloud_ Challenge Lab #GSP323 .md, before:

# GSP323 
## Run in cloudshell
```cmd
REGION=
```
```BigQuery output table``` from Task 1 Table 
```cmd
BigQuery_output_table=
```
```cmd
cat << EOF > s.py
input_string = "$BigQuery_output_table"
parts = input_string.split(':')
LAB_NAME = parts[1].split('.')[0]
CUSTOMERS = parts[1].split('.')[1]
print("LAB_NAME:", LAB_NAME)
print("CUSTOMERS:", CUSTOMERS)
EOF
output=$(python s.py)
LAB_NAME=$(echo "$output" | awk '/LAB_NAME:/ {print $2}')
CUSTOMERS=$(echo "$output" | awk '/CUSTOMERS:/ {print $2}')
bq mk $LAB_NAME
gsutil mb gs://$DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID-marking/
gsutil cp gs://cloud-training/gsp323/lab.csv  .
gsutil cp gs://cloud-training/gsp323/lab.schema .
gcloud dataflow jobs run Cloudhustler --gcs-location gs://dataflow-templates-$REGION/latest/GCS_Text_to_BigQuery --region $REGION --worker-machine-type e2-standard-2 --staging-location gs://$DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID-marking/temp --parameters javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=gs://cloud-training/gsp323/lab.js,JSONPath=gs://cloud-training/gsp323/lab.schema,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=transform,outputTable=$BigQuery_output_table,inputFilePattern=gs://cloud-training/gsp323/lab.csv,bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=gs://$DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID-marking/bigquery_temp
gcloud dataproc clusters create cluster-b53a --region $REGION --master-machine-type e2-standard-2 --master-boot-disk-size 500 --num-workers 2 --worker-machine-type e2-standard-2 --worker-boot-disk-size 500 --image-version 2.1-debian11 --project $DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID
```
### API & Credintials > Create Credintials > API KEY > Copy it
## RUN IN ANOTHER SHELL 
```cmd
API_KEY=
```
```cmd
Bucket_TASK_3=
```
```cmd
Bucket_TASK_4=
```
```cmd
gcloud iam service-accounts create cloushustler \
  --display-name "my natural language service account"
gcloud iam service-accounts keys create ~/key.json \
  --iam-account cloushustler@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com
cloud="/home/$USER/key.json"
gcloud auth activate-service-account cloushustler@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com --key-file=$cloud
gcloud ml language analyze-entities --content="Old Norse texts portray Odin as one-eyed and long-bearded, frequently wielding a spear named Gungnir and wearing a cloak and a broad hat." > result.json
gcloud auth login --no-launch-browser
```
```cmd
gsutil cp result.json $Bucket_TASK_4
cat > request.json <<EOF 
{
  "config": {
      "encoding":"FLAC",
      "languageCode": "en-US"
  },
  "audio": {
      "uri":"gs://cloud-training/gsp323/task3.flac"
  }
}
EOF
curl -s -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" --data-binary @request.json \
"https://speech.googleapis.com/v1/speech:recognize?key=${API_KEY}" > result.json
gsutil cp result.json $Bucket_TASK_3
gcloud iam service-accounts create cloudhus
gcloud iam service-accounts keys create key.json --iam-account cloudhus@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com
gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file key.json
export ACCESS_TOKEN=$(gcloud auth print-access-token)
cat > request.json <<EOF 
{
   "inputUri":"gs://spls/gsp154/video/train.mp4",
   "features": [
       "TEXT_DETECTION"
   ]
}
EOF
curl -s -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer $ACCESS_TOKEN" \
    'https://videointelligence.googleapis.com/v1/videos:annotate' \
    -d @request.json
curl -s -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $ACCESS_TOKEN" 'https://videointelligence.googleapis.com/v1/operations/OPERATION_FROM_PREVIOUS_REQUEST' > result1.json
```
### Search ```Dataproc``` > Click on cluster-b53a
>Vm Instance > ssh > ```hdfs dfs -cp gs://cloud-training/gsp323/data.txt /data.txt```
### From left pannel select jobs > Submit job
>Region ```From LAB``` > Cluster ```cluster-b53a``` > Job type ```spark```

>Main class or jar ```org.apache.spark.examples.SparkPageRank``` 

>Jar files ```file:///usr/lib/spark/examples/jars/spark-examples.jar```

>Arguments ```/data.txt```

>Max restarts per hour ```1```

> SUBMIT

Commit message:

Perform Foundational Data, ML, and AI Tasks in Google Cloud: Challenge Lab GSP323

Perform Foundational Data, ML, and AI Tasks in Google Cloud_ Challenge Lab #GSP323 .md, after:

# GSP323 Challenge Lab
//Run these commands in the Cloudshell

>```Region``` from cloud resources on the Left side 
```cmd
REGION=
```
>```BigQuery output table``` from Task 1 named ```BigQuery output table``` 
```cmd
BigQuery_output_table=
```
```cmd
cat << EOF > s.py
input_string = "$BigQuery_output_table"
parts = input_string.split(':')
LAB_NAME = parts[1].split('.')[0]
CUSTOMERS = parts[1].split('.')[1]
print("LAB_NAME:", LAB_NAME)
print("CUSTOMERS:", CUSTOMERS)
EOF
output=$(python s.py)
LAB_NAME=$(echo "$output" | awk '/LAB_NAME:/ {print $2}')
CUSTOMERS=$(echo "$output" | awk '/CUSTOMERS:/ {print $2}')
bq mk $LAB_NAME
gsutil mb gs://$DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID-marking/
gsutil cp gs://cloud-training/gsp323/lab.csv  .
gsutil cp gs://cloud-training/gsp323/lab.schema .
gcloud dataflow jobs run Cloudhustler --gcs-location gs://dataflow-templates-$REGION/latest/GCS_Text_to_BigQuery --region $REGION --worker-machine-type e2-standard-2 --staging-location gs://$DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID-marking/temp --parameters javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=gs://cloud-training/gsp323/lab.js,JSONPath=gs://cloud-training/gsp323/lab.schema,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=transform,outputTable=$BigQuery_output_table,inputFilePattern=gs://cloud-training/gsp323/lab.csv,bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=gs://$DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID-marking/bigquery_temp
gcloud dataproc clusters create cluster-b53a --region $REGION --master-machine-type e2-standard-2 --master-boot-disk-size 500 --num-workers 2 --worker-machine-type e2-standard-2 --worker-boot-disk-size 500 --image-version 2.1-debian11 --project $DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID
```
### API & Credentials ---> Create Credentials -----> API KEY -------> then Copy it
>```Paste the copied API```
```cmd
API_KEY=
```
>```Copy the .Result file from task 3```
```cmd
Bucket_TASK_3=
```
>```Copy the .Result file from task 4```
```cmd
Bucket_TASK_4=
```
```cmd
gcloud iam service-accounts create cloushustler \
  --display-name "my natural language service account"
gcloud iam service-accounts keys create ~/key.json \
  --iam-account cloushustler@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com
cloud="/home/$USER/key.json"
gcloud auth activate-service-account cloushustler@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com --key-file=$cloud
gcloud ml language analyze-entities --content="Old Norse texts portray Odin as one-eyed and long-bearded, frequently wielding a spear named Gungnir and wearing a cloak and a broad hat." > result.json
gcloud auth login --no-launch-browser
```
>```Copy .Flac and .result file from task 3 and paste it in the below link```
```cmd
gcloud ml speech recognize-long-running <. flac file link> --language-code=en-US --encoding=FLAC --output-uri=<.result link>
```
```cmd
gsutil cp result.json $Bucket_TASK_4
cat > request.json <<EOF 
{
  "config": {
      "encoding":"FLAC",
      "languageCode": "en-US"
  },
  "audio": {
      "uri":"gs://cloud-training/gsp323/task3.flac"
  }
}
EOF
curl -s -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" --data-binary @request.json \
"https://speech.googleapis.com/v1/speech:recognize?key=${API_KEY}" > result.json
gsutil cp result.json $Bucket_TASK_3
gcloud iam service-accounts create cloudhus
gcloud iam service-accounts keys create key.json --iam-account cloudhus@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com
gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file key.json
export ACCESS_TOKEN=$(gcloud auth print-access-token)
cat > request.json <<EOF 
{
   "inputUri":"gs://spls/gsp154/video/train.mp4",
   "features": [
       "TEXT_DETECTION"
   ]
}
EOF
curl -s -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer $ACCESS_TOKEN" \
    'https://videointelligence.googleapis.com/v1/videos:annotate' \
    -d @request.json
curl -s -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $ACCESS_TOKEN" 'https://videointelligence.googleapis.com/v1/operations/OPERATION_FROM_PREVIOUS_REQUEST' > result1.json
```
### Search ```Dataproc``` ---> Clusters-----> Click on the ```cluster-b53a```
>Vm Instance -----> click ssh ----> Run the following Cmd in SSH SHell
```cmd
hdfs dfs -cp gs://cloud-training/gsp323/data.txt /data.txt
```
### From the left panel Click jobs ----> Click Submit a job
>Region ```From LAB resources``` ------->For Cluster ```cluster-b53a``` > Select Job Job type ```spark```

>Main class or jar ```Copy From Task 2 Table``` 

>Jar files ```Copy From Task 2 Table```

>Arguments ```Copy From Task 2 Table```

>Max restarts per hour ```Copy From Task 2 Table```

> SUBMIT
